## Week Four Recap
### Week 4 Questions

1. What is a cookie?  
   * A cookie is a client-side record of a session with about 100MB of storage capability.

2. What’s the difference between a session and a cookie?  
   * Session is server-side, cookie is client-side
   
3. What’s a flash and when do you want to use flashes?  
   * A flash is a message that communicates to the user a success or failure of submitting information to a databse
   
4. Why do people say “HTTP is stateless”?  
   * Because it doesn't store information natively from one session to the next. A server and cookie can do that, but the protocol itself doesn't lend itself to that.
   
5. What’s authentication? Explain.  
   * Authentication is checking the current user id against the session current user id and the user-id of whoever is associated with particular data in a database.
   
6. What’s the difference between authentication and authorization?  
   * Authentication is looking at who is currently "in-session" while authroization deals with the role a user has, usually either admin or default, and what information and editing/destroying capabilities they have.
   
7. What’s a before filter?
   * it's a kind of helper method you can use in a controller that will call a private helper method to DRY up repetitive code and set up grabbing a particular class instance (usually `find.params[:id]`)
   
8. How do we keep track of a user once they’ve logged in?  
   * session info/current_user, cookies and conditional checks for different actions or views.
   
9. When do you want to namespace a resource? When do you want to nest a resource? What's the differences between those two approaches?  
   * Namespace when you want a particular absolute URL to appear in the browser for user-friendliness. Nest a resource when you want to make sure that the particular id of the first class in a join table name can create the type of resource of the second. It guarantees the thing is joined/associated and accessed by the proper associated id. Namespace can be anything/doesn't have to be named in accordance with any particular relationship, but nested resources require a specific order.
   
10. At a high level, what tools can you use to implement authorization? How would you use them?  
    * admin namespacing, current_user conditionals and roles. 
    
11. What's an enum, and what advantages does it offer? What data type needs to be in your database to use an enum? Where do you declare an enum?  
    * it takes a hash as an argument and translates integers into words when we call an attribute. It's helpful for storing usernames and passwords. You declare it in a module.
    
12. What are some strategies you can use to keep your views DRY?  
    * partial forms in views, before filters and helper methods in controllers, utilize the layout.html.erb file and the application.css files generated by Rails for any universal needs.

### Reviews Questions 
13. Given the following array of hashes, how would I print an alphabetical list of holidays?
```ruby
holidays = [
 {holiday: {name: "St Patrick's Day", supplies: ["Corned Beef and Cabbage"]},
 {holiday: {name: "Halloween", supplies: ["Candy", "Costume"]},
 {holiday: {name: "Hanukkah", supplies: ["Menorah"]}
]
holidays.sort_by(holiday.name.downcase)
```
    
14. How would you clean incoming data to ensure "$300" or "300.00" is stored as 300?  
    * you'd use `.to_i`

### Self Assessment:
Choose One:
* I was able to answer most questions independently, but utilized outside resources for a few

Choose One:
* I feel comfortable with the content presented this week
